but I will present today is actually a
particular way that I tried to
instantiate into the physical world what
I think what I considered to be one of
the most interesting and fascinating
aspect of blockchain technologies which
is the ability to operate autonomously
and to some extent to interact with its
own environment like an independent
entity with a life on its own but before
we begin let's try and look at what are
the fundamental characteristics of a
blockchain that actually differentiated
from the most traditional Internet based
platforms and so now that we can go back
back in 1996 when John Perry Barlow
caught the Declaration of Independence
of the cyberspace and what Bauer brought
in this declaration actually inspired a
lot of people and what he claimed was
that the cyberspace is this independent
space that simply could not be regulated
because government simply did not have
the heart nor the capacity to exact the
sovereignty over this but then of course
as we all know by now those promises did
not actually materialize in the same way
as many of us would have hoped because
as soon as the opportunities of the
internet began to be understood by new
and established market players then the
market dynamics actually kicked in and
the architecture of the Internet slowly
started to change evolving into this
increasingly centralized system which is
today controlled by a few incumbents and
so in just a few years the internet
which was originally seen as this mean
in order to promote individual freedoms
and autonomy as a giant will eventually
have turned into this powerful tool of
surveillance and control but the reality
is that John Perry Barlow actually did
not believe what he had written and in
fact to the contrary it was the
foresight that the cyberspace will soon
be co-opted by corporations and by
governmental powers that actually
motivated him to hide
declaration and his goal was in fact to
create a movement a movement of digital
activists that will actually stand up
and fight for those newfound digital
liberties and so I was myself also very
inspired by John Perry Barlow and so it
wasn't the Declaration of Independence
of the cyberspace that actually hooked
me up and it was a previous piece a
piece which is perhaps less known but
yet this is the one that actually made
me realize how important and
all-powerful the Internet is and why we
should actually try and preserve it as
much as we can and so this piece was
called selling wine without bottles and
in this piece Barlow described how
digital technology is progressively
detaching information from the physical
plane so it is taking the wine out of
the bottles and without those physical
containers then there is no longer any
property to trade and so the wine can
flow freely without any constraints and
so in order to contain it then we have
created those artificial bottles what we
call intellectual property in order to
create some kind of artificial scarcity
all of these non high-value assets like
information and so Paolo actually saw
this as a nominee that we actually need
to rethink of existing laws and economic
models and that we need to try and get
out of this scarcity based mindset of
copyright law and adopt instead a whole
new mindset one well devalue actually
emerged from the relationship and from
the social interactions rather than from
the sale of those physical containers
and so what is happening today in my
view er sorry that's not him
what is happening today
if we listen to the only promises of
Satoshi Nakamoto are the cypherpunks
of many crypto anarchist libertarians is
that blockchain technologies is now
bringing a new wave of disruption a
technological innovation that could
actually help us transition to of this
new decentralized society and bringing
back the same ideas of freedom and
autonomy which are reminiscent of the
early internet days and so the question
then is can blockchain technologies
today actually succeed where the
internet had failed now the thing is
that those negatives of the
centralization autonomy trust lessness
of a legality are actually somewhat too
similar to the earthly narratives that
the internet pioneers who are advocating
for anime of course as well be just as
wrong and so it is not so important to
try and understand what is it that
actually made the Internet faith and so
as low as over the Internet we have this
notion of Lex informatica which
essentially means that code is
increasingly being used as a mean to
regulate behavior and so code is law
because code is increasingly assuming
the same functionalities as the law even
though of course this code remains under
the control of online operators which
are themselves remaining under the
traditional rule of the law and then on
a blockchain the code is also being used
as a mean to regulate behavior but the
difference is that this time because of
the specificity and the inherent
characteristics of the blockchain then
this code can be designed to somewhat
ignore the traditional rule of law and
so the only law that actually matters in
the system is the code and so this has
two important implications one is that
blockchain technologies actually reduced
the need for intermediaries of trusted
Authority because it's actually shifting
the trust
away from the centralized operators and
towards the underlying technology and so
this means that as long as we can trust
the technology then
we no longer need to trust anyone else
and the other one is that it actually
creates new possibilities for increasing
the autonomy and the automation of the
technological system because once they
have been deployed on a blockchain then
the system no longer needs no heat their
creators and they can be designed to
operate autonomously and independently
of the original will of the parties
deploying it and so this obviously
creates some potential conflicts between
the rule of law and the rule of code and
so what we will explore now is what is
the interplay between those two types of
regulation regulation by code and
regulation by law and can one actually
overtake the author so can blockchain
technologies be actually first to comply
with the law to the contrary can they
actually be used in order to bypass
existing regulatory frameworks to the
extent that they operate within their
own and separate technical framework and
so this distinction between the rule of
law and the rule of code is actually the
most apparent in the context of property
so traditional property rights are
defined by the law and they can defer
also be taken away by the law so if I
acquire a particular piece of property
in a way that turns out to be
illegitimate then a judge a court order
can actually declare that I'm not the
legitimate owner of the property and
potentially take it away from me well as
when we move into those blockchain based
systems then we encounter those new
cryptographic assets of blockchain based
properties which actually do not follow
the same rules because the ownership of
those assets is defined by the code
rather by the law and therefore it can
only be taken away by the code and so if
I legitimate if I legitimately acquire a
Bitcoin then regardless of what the law
says then no one can actually
unilaterally intervene in order to take
those bitcoins away from me and then the
same applies in the context of contracts
so traditional legal contracts are
create
according to specific fields which are
defined by contract law and those are
meant to actually create some kind of
binding agreement between two parties
but those agreements can only be
enforced through the intervention of a
third party Authority which needs to
read and understand and interpret the
actual workings of the contract in order
to then understand what was the original
intent behind the contracting parties
and again when we move into those
blockchain based systems then we create
those new type of contractual of
technical arrangements which are the
so-called smart contracts and those are
actually defined only and exclusively by
the code which has been deployed on the
blockchain and so those agreements do
not actually require the intervention of
any third party alternative for the
enforcement because the contractual
provision will be automatically enforced
by the technology itself which of course
is incapable of actually understanding
the real intentionality of the parties
but we'll just look at the wording of
the code and so those characteristics
actually mean that we can now create
those kind of software entities on a
blockchain in such a way that they can
de facto act as autonomous agents
because those agent can own property to
the extent that this property can be
defined as a particular token or as a
representation on the blockchain and
they can also engage into a series of
contractual relationship via those smart
contracts and then most importantly even
to those autonomous agents generally do
not have any kind of intelligence they
are actually quite simple so they do not
have like decisional autonomy in that
they cannot take any decision on the
home they do actually benefit from a
different kind of autonomy which is the
operational autonomy in the sense that
they can operate autonomously and
independently of any third party and so
this leads us to the most exciting part
of blockchain technology at least in my
view which is the ability to create
new kind of algorithmic and entities
which can be regarded to some extent as
a blockchain based live phone because
they are autonomous they are
self-sufficient in the sense that they
can collect all the resources that they
need in order to sustain themselves and
of course like any other kind of life
form
they are also potentially capable of
reproducing themselves and so this might
sound a little bit confusing at first
but to illustrate the concept I've had
here it is a small prototype of a
blockchain based life form which you can
interact with so this is a plant art
which is the Android version of a plant
and this is my personal attempt at
trying to show in the physical world
what are the core functionality of a
blockchain based organization and so how
does this work exactly so traditional
plants most of them at least are
incapable after producing themselves on
their own and they oftentimes rely on
the help of third parties like these or
butterflies in order to help them in the
reproduction process to the pollination
in the same way plantoids are actually
also incapable of reproducing themselves
on their own and they rely on the help
of humans in order to support them
through the reproduction process via the
fact of donating some kind of capital to
them in the form of cryptocurrencies and
so the important thing to understand
about a plant or it is that it is made
of two separate components so one is the
body of the plant earth which is this
mechanical sculpture that exists in the
physical world and the other one is the
spirit of the soul of the plant oil
which actually exists
as a material smart contract and those
two components interact with each other
in order to bring the planter to life
and obviously in order to help it
reproduce and so let's look at the
different phases of the reproduction of
a plant oil so the first one is the
capitalization phase and this is when
the Plantard will try to make itself as
beautiful as possible in order to lure
people into donating some
cryptocurrencies to
it and so every blunt ID has its own
Bitcoin and it in your wallet that
people can actually send funds to and
every time it received some funds than
the Plantard will try and show some form
of appreciation by doing some lights or
by doing music or by doing a little
dance and so I can do a little
demonstration here I will feed this
plant out with a few bitcoins
I have no internet so I will not do a
demonstration that's a pity but I think
you have seen it reacting anyways
anyways so normally does some kind of
rainbow a slideshow and the thing is
that the planet is constantly monitoring
its blockchain balance and then whenever
we realize that it has accumulated a
sufficient amount of funds in order to
reproduce itself then this will trigger
the smart contact on the Italian
blockchain which will start the second
phase of reproduction which is the
mating phase and this is when the
Plantard will actually actively start to
look for an individual a person that
will actually support in the
reproduction and so this is done via the
smart contract on the ATM blockchain
that will essentially open a call
inviting anyone of this designer so
whoever wants to submit a proposition
about how they actually envisioned to
create the next version of the plantoids
and then all the people that have found
that the planter can then vote on the
proposition that they liked the most and
their vote will be weighted with the
amount of funds that they have sent in
the first place and then this math
content will then process all that
information and eventually will
establish a winner and this will trigger
the third phase of reproduction which is
the hiring phase and this is when the
planter it will then execute blockchain
transaction in order to transfer the
funds that it has collected so far to
the selected winner who will then be
hired by the plantoids in order to
create a new copy of itself and so here
you can see the genealogical tree of the
plantoids species and so as you can see
this is pointed number six which is the
result of the reproduction of the
genesis planted number one and so every
plant art actually needs to abide by the
genetic criteria which have been encoded
into the DNA of its patterns and so in
the case of this plant ID it needs to be
made of chain and its design needs to be
released on the ratchet of common
licensed as required by the genesis
planetoid one and then every artist that
is creating a new planted can then add
additional constraints into the DNA of
the planter that they are producing and
so in the case of this plant out for
instance I have added the condition that
whenever it is being fed it needs to
actually display this little rainbow ish
light show and so we can see how this
actually creates some kind of
evolutionary algorithm where different
plant oils will actually evolve into
different species each one with their
own characteristics and then the
blinders which are the most popular will
be able to help to collect more
cryptocurrencies and therefore will be
able to reproduce themselves more and
the one that are actually least
appreciated will eventually fade into
extinction and so in the end we will
actually be able to find out which one
of those planets are actually the most
fit to the home environment and those
are the one that actually reproduce the
most and potentially start colonizing
our planet and actually on that point
I'm actually very proud to announce that
right now to have nine ten thoughts but
his three new planets that are being
built and they will soon go and colonize
black hot city because they are going to
Burning Man this year and I'm also
taking this as an opportunity that if
anyone knows of anyone that will
actually like to host any of those
planets after Burning Man please talk to
me and I'm happy to give them away now
in addition to all these of course the
plantoids are also not just like selfish
creatures but they also care about the
home creators and so every time applying
thought actually accumulates a
sufficient amount of funds in order to
reproduce itself then it will stand a
small portion of those funds back to its
parent to the planter that actually
generated it and then another small
portion of those funds will actually go
to the creator to the artist that
actually produced the plantoids and so
this kind of pyramid scheme actually has
two important benefits
the first one is that I created the
genesis planetoid and so I currently
stand at the top of this pyramid I'm not
getting that much mindfulness but the
other one which is actually more
important is that it actually creates a
positive incentive for every artist to
create the most beautiful plant art
because the more popular this point all
will be then the martyr will be able to
collect potential royalties and then
another important element of this is
that this actually shift the model of
copyrights around in the sense that
copyright law is based on the notion of
scarcity and exclusivity
whereas here every artist actually has
an incentive to maximize the
dissemination of its works because the
more visibility the Plantard gets then
the more money it will be able to
collect but also to encourage the making
of remixes or creative work in
derivative works in order to actually
ensure that they can maximize the return
on investment for the royalties and then
finally most importantly this actually
shift away the focus away from the
artist and to of the art piece and so
instead of sending money to a variety of
artists in the hope that they will
continue to produce works that we like
we can now fund directly the art piece
itself and then it is up to the artist
to decide and to select which one is the
artist that should be untitled to
reproduce it and so now of course the
plain thought is actually just one
particular example of a particular kind
of production based life form but there
are actually many other and many kinds
of blockchain based life form already
out there and so in fact most of the
existing doctrine based network can
themselves be regarded as a blockchain
based life formal to very precarious in
the sense that they are autonomous
because they actually operate
independently of any centralized
authority they are self-sufficient in
the sense that they can actually sustain
their own operation through the issuance
of tokens to the minors and of course
they are also capable of reproducing
themselves in
multiple species or breeds and then
there is also a variety of new
blockchain based life form which are
being built on top of existing
production base network and those are
the so-called decentralized application
of decentralized autonomous organization
which also implement the horn token
system in order to fund or to sustain
their operation and which are also
possibly capable of and
reproducing themselves and then finally
there are also the more advanced type of
reduction based life forms which
actually instantiate themselves into the
physical world and so this is of course
the case of the plantoids but there are
also a variety of other initiatives
which are actually experimenting with us
so for instance the example of Mozilla
which is using a blockchain in order to
help forest
sell the home trees and the news the
money that they have collected in order
to purchase the home land in order to
then emancipate themselves from that
owners and then there is also the more
futuristic idea of the self-driving car
that actually owns itself and then the
car can collect money when its providing
some Heights to people and then use this
money in order to purchase some gas or
electricity or potentially in order to
pay people to repair or to grade itself
if it has accumulated sufficient funds
to do so and of course you might wonder
then why limit ourselves to autonomous
cars when we could actually create
atomic engines which are collecting
money for the services that they provide
to society and then use this money in
order to feed themselves with
electricity or perhaps in order to pay
people to work for them and eventually
one day perhaps also in order to
reproduce themselves just like this
planetoid does and so to conclude I will
say that this is of course still a
little bit into the field of science
fiction but those opportunities are
actually started to become real as
demonstrated by this little point on
here and I will actually be very happy
to see that more and more experiment
probably coming from the artistic crayon
because this is the only place in which
it's still it makes sense at the moment
in order to try and explore how we can
actually experiment and create new
blockchain based life forms thank you
[Applause]